hi my name is Talia Gershon and I'm a
scientist at IBM Research today I've
been challenged to explain a topic with
five levels of increasing complexity
it's a completely different kind of
computing called quantum computing
quantum computers approach solving
problems in a fundamentally new way and
we hope that by taking this new approach
to computation we'll be able to start
exploring some problems that we can
never solve any other way hopefully by
the end of today everyone can leave this
discussion understanding quantum
computing at some level what's this what
do you think that is can't you share the
Lear I think so too
we jokingly call it the chandelier
that's real gold you know this is a
quantum computer it's a con it's a
really special kind of computer what
does it do it calculates things but in a
totally different way to how your
computer calculates things what do you
think this is Hey yeah you know what
your computer thinks that is this really
specific combination of zeros and ones
everything that your computer does
showing you Pink Panther videos on
YouTube calculating things searching the
internet it does all of that with a
really specific combination of zeros and
ones which is crazy right that would be
like saying your computer only
understands these quarters for each
quarter you need to tell it that you're
gonna use heads tails and you assign it
heads or tails so I can switch between
heads and tails and I can switch the
zeros and ones in my computer so that it
represents what I wanted to represent
like an A and with quantum computers we
have new rules we get to use too we can
actually spin one of our quarters so it
doesn't have to choose just one or the
other can computers help you with um
your homework or really hard yeah it can
especially if doing your homework
involves calculating something or
finding information but what if your
homework was to discover something
totally new a lot of those discovery
questions are much harder to solve using
the computers we have today so the
reason we're building these kinds of
computers is because we think that maybe
one day they're going to do a lot of
really important things like help
understand nature better maybe help us
create new medicines to help people
what's your favorite kind of computer
smartphone tablet regular laptop PC I've
gotta go with my iPhone so what do you
do with your iPhone social media use it
for studying have you ever run out of
space on your iPhone all the time always
when I'm trying to see the photo so did
you know that there are certain kinds of
problems that computers sort of run out
of space almost like you're trying to
solve the problem and just like how do
you run out of space on your iPhone when
you're trying to take a picture if
you're trying to solve the problem you
just run on space and even if you have
the world's the biggest supercomputer
did you know that can still happen Wow
so my team is working on building new
kinds of computers all together ones
that operate by totally different set of
rules so do you know what that is no
glue it's quantum computer a what you
ever heard of a quantum computer I
haven't have you ever heard of the word
quantum No
okay so quantum mechanics is a branch of
science just like any other branch of
science it's a branch of physics it's
the study of things that are either
really really small really really well
isolated I mean really really cold and
this particular branch of science is
something we're using to totally
reimagine how computing works so we're
building totally new kinds of computers
based on the laws of quantum mechanics
that's what a computer is I'm gonna
start by telling you about something
called superposition so I'm gonna
explain it using this giant penny is
that like worth a hundred pennies know
what it's worth but I can put a face up
right and that's heads I can put a face
down right so at any given time your
point in time if I ask you is my penny
heads or tails probably you could answer
it right yeah okay but what if I spin
the penny so let's do it okay so while
it's spinning is it heads or tails hat
while it's spinning oh I would know it's
sort of it's sort of a combination of
heads and tails right would you say so
superposition is this idea that my penny
is not just either heads or tails it's
in this state which is a combination of
heads and tails
quantum property is something that we
can have in real real physical objects
in the world
so that's superposition and the second
thing that we'll talk about is called
entanglement so now I'm gonna give you a
penny when we use the word entangled in
everyday language what do we mean that
someone's intertwined or exactly that
there's two things that are connected in
some way and usually we can separate
them again your hair is saying older
whatever you can you can unentangled it
right yeah but in the quantum world when
we entangle things they're really now
connected it's much much harder to
separate them again so using the same
analogy we spin our pennies and
eventually eventually they don't stop
and when they stop it's either heads or
tails right so in my case I got tails
and you got heads you see how they're
totally disconnected from each other
right our pennies in the real world now
if our pennies were entangled and we
both spun them together right when we
stopped there if you measured your penny
to be a head I would measure my penny to
be a head and if you measured your penny
to be a tails I measure my opinion to be
a tails if we measured it at exactly the
same time we would still find that they
were both exactly correlated that's
crazy the way that we are able to
actually see these quantum properties is
by making our quantum chips really
really cold so that's what this is all
about actually this is called a dilution
refrigerator and it's a refrigerator it
doesn't look like an Oreo frigerator
right but it's something that we use
actually there's usually a case around
it to cool our quantum chips down cold
enough that we can create super
positions and we can entangle qubits and
the information isn't loss of the
environment like what could those chips
be used to do so one of the things that
we're trying to use quantum computers to
do is simulating chemical bonding use a
quantum system to model a quantum system
yeah I mean I'm definitely gonna impress
all my friends when I tell them about
this they're gonna be like quantum what
so what do you think that thing is is it
some sort of conductor circuit that is a
really good guess there's parts of that
that are definitely about conducting
this is the inside of a quantum computer
oh wow yeah this whole infrastructure is
all about creating levels that get
progressively colder as you go
from top to bottom down to the quantum
chip which is how we actually control
the state of the qubits oh wow so when
you say cold or you mean like physically
colder
yeah like physically colder so room
temperature is 300 Kelvin as you get
down all the way to the bottom of the
fridge it's at 10 Mille Kelvin oh wow
Amanda what he study so I'm studying
computer science currently a sophomore
and the track that I'm in is the
intelligent systems tracks machine
learning artificial intelligence you
ever heard of quantum computing from my
understanding with a quantum computer
rather than using transistors is using
spins you can have superposition of
spins so different states more
combinations means more memory so that's
pretty good so you mentioned
superposition but you can also use other
quantum properties like entanglement
have you heard of entanglement
I have not ok so it's this idea that you
have two objects and when you entangle
them together they become connected oh
and then they're sort of permanently
connected to each other and they behave
in ways that are sort of a system now so
superposition is one quantum property
that we use entanglement is another
quantum property and a third is
interference how much you know about
interference not much okay so how do
north canceling headphones work they
read like wave like ambient wavelengths
and then produce like the opposite one
to cancel out they create interference
so you can have constructive
interference and you can have
destructive interference if you have
constructive interference you have
amplitudes wave amplitudes that add to
the signal gets larger and if you have
destructive interference the amplitudes
cancel by using a property like
interference we can control quantum
states and amplify the kinds of signals
that are towards the right answer and
then cancel the types of signals that
are leading to the wrong answer so given
that you know that we're trying to use
superposition and tangle men and
interference for computation how do you
think we build these computers I have
known so step one is you need to be able
to have an object is achill device we
call it a qubit or quantum bit that can
actually handle those things can
actually be put into superposition of
states you know two qubit states that
you can physically entangle with each
other that's not really trivial right
things in our classical world you can't
really entangle things in our classical
world so easily
we need to use devices where they can
they can support a quantum state and we
can manipulate that quantum state atoms
ions and in our case superconducting
qubits we make qubits out of
superconducting materials but as like a
programmer
how would quantum computing affect a
different way of writing a program it's
a perfect question I mean it's very
early for quantum computing but we're
building assembly languages we're
building layers of abstraction that are
gonna get you to a point as a programmer
where you can interchangeably be
programming something the way that you
already do and then make calls to a
quantum computer so that you can bring
it in when it makes sense
we're not envisioning quantum computers
completely replacing classical computers
any time soon
we think that quantum computing is going
to be used to accelerate the kinds of
things that are really hard for
classical machines so what exactly are
some of those problems simulating nature
is something that's really hard because
if you take something like you know
modeling atomic bonding an electronic
orbital overlap instead of now writing
out a giant summation over many terms
you try and actually mimic the system
you're trying to simulate directly on a
quantum computer which we can do for
chemistry and we're looking at ways of
doing that for other types of things
there's a lot of exciting research right
now on machine learning trying to use
quantum systems to accelerate machine
learning problems so would it be like in
five years or ten years but I would be
able to have like one of these sitting
in my laptop just in my dorm I don't
think you're gonna have one in your dorm
room anytime soon but you'll have access
to one there's three free quantum
computers that are all sitting in this
lab here that anyone in the world can
access through the cloud okay so quantum
computing creates new possibilities and
new ways to approach problems that
classical computers have difficulty
doing couldn't a said it better myself
so I'm a first year masters student and
I'm studying machine learning so it's in
the computer science department but it
mixes computer science with math and
probability and statistics so have you
come up upon sort of any limits to
machine learning certainly depending on
the complexity of your model then
computational speed is one thing I have
colleagues here that tell me you can
take up to weeks to train certain neural
networks right sure yeah and actually
machine learning is one research
direction where we're really hoping that
we're going to find
key parts of the machine learning
computation that can be sped up using
quantum computing yeah it's exciting so
in a classical computer you know you
have all sorts of logical gates that
perform operations and they change an
input to some sort of output but I guess
it's not immediately obvious how you do
that with quantum computers if you think
about even just classical information
like bits right at the end of the day
when you store a bit in your hard drive
there's a magnetic domain and you have a
magnetic polarization right sure you can
change the magnetization to be pointing
up or pointing down right quantum
systems were still manipulating a device
and changing the quantum state of that
of that device you can imagine if it's a
spin that you could have spin up and
spin down but you can also if you
isolate it enough you can have a
superposition of up and down sure so
what we do when we try to solve problems
with a quantum computer is we encode
parts of the problem we're trying to
solve into a complex quantum state and
then we manipulate that state to drive
it towards what will eventually
represent the solution so how do we
actually encode it to start with yeah
that's a really good question this
actually is a model of the inside of one
of our quantum computers ok so you need
a chip with qubits each qubit is a
carrier of quantum information and the
way we control the state of that qubit
is using microwave pulses you send them
all the way down these cables and we've
calibrated these microwave pulses so
that we know exactly this kind of pulse
with this frequency and this duration
will put two qubit into a superposition
or will flip the state of the qubit from
0 to 1 or if we apply a microwave pulse
between two qubits we can entangle them
how do we make yes exactly also through
microwave signals okay the key is to
come up with algorithms where the result
is deterministic interesting so what did
those algorithms look like there's sort
of two main classes of quantum
algorithms there's algorithms which were
developed for decades right things like
Shor's algorithm which is for factoring
Grover's algorithm for unstructured
search and these algorithms were
designed assuming that you had a perfect
fault-tolerant quantum computer which is
many decades away so we're currently in
a phase where we're exploring what can
we do with these near-term quantum
computers
and the answer is gonna be well we need
different kinds of algorithms to really
even explore that question yeah
certainly having a search algorithm is
very useful factoring those are
definitely useful things that I would
imagine could be done a lot faster on
the quantum computer yeah
they also unfortunately require fault
tolerance right now the algorithms that
we know of today to do those things on a
quantum computer require you to have
millions of error corrected qubits today
we're at like 50 it's a it's actually
amazing that we're at 50 there's things
that we know or we have strong reason to
believe are gonna be faster to do on a
quantum computer and then there's things
that we'll discover just by virtue of
having one sure how could someone like
me who's a grad student get involved in
this or what kinds of challenges are you
facing that someone like me could help
out with I'm glad you're interested I
think the place where lots of people can
get involved right now is by going and
trying it out and thinking about what
they could do with it there's a lot of
opportunity to find these near-term
applications that are only going to be
found by trying things out I'm a
theoretical physicist I started out in
condensed matter theory the theory that
studies superconductors and magnets and
you know I had to learn a new field of
quantum optics and apply those ideas one
of the nice things about being a
theorist is you get to keep learning new
things so Steve tell me about your
research and the work you've been doing
in quantum computing my main focus right
now is quantum error correction and
trying to understand this concept of
fault tolerance which everybody thinks
they know it when they see it but nobody
in the quantum case can precisely define
it it's something that we've already
figured out for classical computing like
something that amazes me is all the
parallels between what we're going
through now for quantum computing and
what we went through for classical
computing I was asking computer
scientists recently where to read about
fault tolerance in classical computing
he said oh they don't teach that in
computer science classes anymore because
the hardware has become so reliable in a
quantum system when you look at it or
make measurements it it can change in a
way that's beyond your control we have
the following task build a nearly
perfect
computer out of a whole bunch of
imperfect parts common myth
how many qubits do you have that's the
only thing that matters I just add more
qubits what's the big deal pattern them
on your chip the great power of a
quantum computer is also its Achilles
heel that it's very very sensitive to
perturbations and noise and
environmental effects you're just
multiplying your problems if all you're
doing is adding I think something that
frustrates a lot of people about quantum
computing is the concept of decoherence
right you can only keep your information
quantum for so long right and that
limits how many operations you can do in
a row before you lose your information
that's the challenge I would say as much
progress as we've made it's a
frustration to still be facing it let's
talk about some of the things we think
need to happen between now and fully
fault-tolerant quantum computers to get
us of that reality I mean there's so
many things that need to happen in my
mind one of the things we need to do is
build all these different layers of
abstraction that make it easier for
programmers to come in and just enter at
the ground level yeah yeah exactly so I
think there's gonna be a kind of
coevolution of the hardware and the
software up here and the sort of
middleware and the whole stack another
common myth in the next five years
quantum computing will solve climate
change cancer right in the next five
years there'll be tremendous progress in
the field but people really have to
understand that we're either at the
vacuum tube or transistors stage you
were trying to invent the integrated
circuit and scale it's still very very
very early in the development of the
field one last minute I think we should
bus Steve quantum computers are on the
verge of breaking into your bank account
and breaking encryption and creative
cryptography there does exist an
algorithm Shor's algorithm which has
been proven mathematically that if you
had a large enough quantum computer you
could find the prime factors of large
numbers the basis of the RSA encryption
that's the most common leaves thing
on the Internet first we're far away
from being able to have a quantum
computer big enough to execute Shor's
algorithm on that scale second there are
plenty of other encryption schemes that
don't use factoring and I don't think
anybody has to be concerned at the
moment and in the end quantum mechanics
goes to the side of privacy enhancement
if you have a quantum communication
channel you can encode information and
send it through there and it's provably
secure based on the laws of physics you
know now that everybody around the world
can access a quantum computer through
the cloud people are doing all kinds of
cool things are building games we've
seen the emergence of quantum games
right what do you think people want to
do with them I have no idea what people
are going to end up using them for I
mean if you had gone back thirty years
and handed somebody an iPhone they would
have called you a wizard things are
gonna happen that we just can't foresee
so I hope you enjoyed that foray into
the field of quantum computing I know
I've personally enjoyed getting to see
quantum computing through other people's
eyes coming at it from all these
different levels this is such an
exciting time in the history of quantum
computing only in the last couple years
have real quantum computers become
available to everyone around the world
this is the beginning of a many decade
adventure where we'll discover so many
things about quantum computing and what
it will do we don't even know all the
amazing things that's going to do and to
me that's the most exciting part
[Music]